**Title: Mastering C++ Lists and Vectors through Playful Programming**

**Description:**

Ready to transform data structures into exciting adventures? This
training module gets you coding with vectors and lists in C++ while
building fun, interactive programs. We\'ll ditch the dry tutorials and
dive into creating engaging activities that solidify your understanding
of these essential data structures.

**Learning Objectives:**

-   Implement vectors and lists in C++ for practical applications.

-   Apply data structures to create interactive user experiences.

-   Enhance your C++ programming skills through playful exercises.

-   Grasp the core functionalities of vectors and lists through hands-on
    practice.

**Follow Me:**

Before we begin, ensure you have a basic understanding of C++ syntax and
variables. Familiarity with loops and conditional statements will be
beneficial. Let\'s jump into the fun part!

**Practices:**

Each practice session will guide you through building a mini-game using
C++ vectors and lists.

**Practice 1: Guessing Game**

**1.1 Business Requirements:**

Develop a program where the user tries to guess a randomly generated
number within a specific range.

**1.2 Tech Requirements:**

Use a vector to store a list of past guesses for the user to reference.

**1.3 Learning Materials:**

-   C++ random number generation: \[Search online \"C++ generate random
    number\"\]

-   Vector functionalities: \[Search online \"C++ vector
    documentation\"\]

**1.4 Testing:**

Test the program with various guess ranges and ensure the random number
generation and guess tracking work correctly.

**1.5 Sample Implementation:**

\#**include** \<iostream\>

\#**include** \<vector\>

\#**include** \<ctime\>

using namespace std;

int main() {

srand(time(0)); // Seed random number generator

int secretNumber = rand() % 100 + 1; // Generate random number (1-100)

int guess, tries = 0;

vector\<int\> guesses;

cout \<\< \"Guess a number between 1 and 100 (you have 5 tries): \";

while (tries \< 5) {

cin \>\> guess;

guesses.push\_back(guess);

tries++;

if (guess == secretNumber) {

cout \<\< \"Congratulations! You guessed the number in \" \<\< tries
\<\< \" tries.\" \<\< endl;

break;

} else if (guess \< secretNumber) {

cout \<\< \"Too low. Try again.\" \<\< endl;

} else {

cout \<\< \"Too high. Try again.\" \<\< endl;

}

}

if (tries == 5) {

cout \<\< \"Sorry, you ran out of guesses. The number was: \" \<\<
secretNumber \<\< endl;

}

cout \<\< \"Your guesses were: \";

for (int guess : guesses) {

cout \<\< guess \<\< \" \";

}

cout \<\< endl;

return 0;

}

**1.6 Key Takeaways:**

-   Utilize vectors to store user data (past guesses) effectively.

-   Employ loops for user interaction and result comparison.

**1.7 Further Reading:**

-   Explore more advanced vector functionalities like sorting and
    searching.

**Practice 2: Word Jumble - Unscramble a Jumbled Word using a Vector of
Characters**

**2.1 Business Requirements:**

Develop a program that presents the user with a jumbled word and allows
them to guess the correct word by rearranging the letters.

**2.2 Tech Requirements:**

-   Use a vector to store the characters of the jumbled word.

-   Implement functionalities to manipulate characters within the vector
    (e.g., swapping, displaying).

**2.3 Learning Materials:**

-   C++ vector element access and modification: \[Search online \"C++
    vector documentation\"\]

**2.4 Testing:**

Test the program with various words to ensure characters are shuffled
correctly, and user input for rearranging letters functions as intended.

**2.5 Sample Implementation:**

\#**include** \<iostream\>

\#**include** \<vector\>

\#**include** \<algorithm\> // for random\_shuffle

using namespace std;

int main() {

string word = \"apple\"; // Replace with any word

vector\<char\> jumbledLetters(word.begin(), word.end());

// Jumble the letters in the vector

random\_shuffle(jumbledLetters.begin(), jumbledLetters.end());

cout \<\< \"Unscramble the word: \";

for (char letter : jumbledLetters) {

cout \<\< letter \<\< \" \";

}

cout \<\< endl;

char temp, from, to;

int numSwaps;

cout \<\< \"Enter the number of swaps you want to make: \";

cin \>\> numSwaps;

for (int i = 0; i \< numSwaps; i++) {

cout \<\< \"Enter two indices (from and to) to swap characters: \";

cin \>\> from \>\> to;

// Check for valid indices within vector bounds

if (from \>= 0 && from \< jumbledLetters.size() && to \>= 0 && to \<
jumbledLetters.size()) {

temp = jumbledLetters\[from\];

jumbledLetters\[from\] = jumbledLetters\[to\];

jumbledLetters\[to\] = temp;

} else {

cout \<\< \"Invalid indices. Please try again.\" \<\< endl;

}

}

cout \<\< \"Your unscrambled word: \";

for (char letter : jumbledLetters) {

cout \<\< letter;

}

cout \<\< endl;

// Check if the unscrambled word matches the original word

if (string(jumbledLetters.begin(), jumbledLetters.end()) == word) {

cout \<\< \"Congratulations! You unscrambled the word.\" \<\< endl;

} else {

cout \<\< \"Oops! The word was: \" \<\< word \<\< endl;

}

return 0;

}

**2.6 Key Takeaways:**

-   Access and modify individual characters within a vector.

-   Utilize loops for user interaction and character manipulation.

**2.7 Further Reading:**

-   Explore string manipulation functions in C++ for advanced word
    processing.

**Practice 3: Shopping List Manager - Store and Manage Shopping Items
using a List Data Structure**

**3.1 Business Requirements:**

Develop a program that acts as a shopping list manager. Users can add
items, remove items, and view their current shopping list.

**3.2 Tech Requirements:**

-   Use a list data structure (e.g., std::list from C++ STL) to store
    shopping items.

-   Implement functions to add items (including quantity), remove items
    by name, and display the entire list.

**3.3 Learning Materials:**

-   C++ list functionalities: \[Search online \"C++ std::list
    documentation\"\]

**3.4 Testing:**

Test the program with various functionalities. Ensure adding items,
removing items, and displaying the list work correctly.

**3.5 Sample Implementation:**

\#**include** \<iostream\>

\#**include** \<list\>

\#**include** \<string\>

using namespace std;

struct Item {

string name;

int quantity;

};

int main() {

list\<Item\> shoppingList;

string itemName;

int quantity;

cout \<\< \"Welcome to your Shopping List Manager!\" \<\< endl;

while (true) {

cout \<\< \"\\nMenu:\" \<\< endl;

cout \<\< \"1. Add Item\" \<\< endl;

cout \<\< \"2. Remove Item\" \<\< endl;

cout \<\< \"3. View List\" \<\< endl;

cout \<\< \"4. Exit\" \<\< endl;

int choice;

cout \<\< \"Enter your choice: \";

cin \>\> choice;

switch (choice) {

case 1:

cout \<\< \"Enter item name: \";

cin.ignore(); // Clear input buffer

getline(cin, itemName);

cout \<\< \"Enter quantity: \";

cin \>\> quantity;

Item newItem = {itemName, quantity};

shoppingList.push\_back(newItem);

cout \<\< itemName \<\< \" (x\" \<\< quantity \<\< \") added to the
list.\" \<\< endl;

break;

case 2:

cout \<\< \"Enter item name to remove: \";

cin.ignore();

getline(cin, itemName);

bool removed = false;

for (auto it = shoppingList.begin(); it != shoppingList.end(); ++it) {

if (it-\>name == itemName) {

shoppingList.erase(it);

removed = true;

cout \<\< itemName \<\< \" removed from the list.\" \<\< endl;

break;

}

}

if (!removed) {

cout \<\< itemName \<\< \" not found in the list.\" \<\< endl;

}

break;

case 3:

if (shoppingList.empty()) {

cout \<\< \"Your shopping list is empty.\" \<\< endl;

} else {

cout \<\< \"\\nShopping List:\" \<\< endl;

for (const Item& item : shoppingList) {

cout \<\< \"- \" \<\< item.name \<\< \" (x\" \<\< item.quantity \<\<
\")\" \<\< endl;

}

}

break;

case 4:

cout \<\< \"Exiting Shopping List Manager.\" \<\< endl;

return 0;

default:

cout \<\< \"Invalid choice. Please try again.\" \<\< endl;

}

}

return 0;

}

**3.6 Key Takeaways:**

-   Utilize lists to store and manage a collection of items with dynamic
    size.

-   Implement user interaction through menus and choices.

**3.7 Further Reading:**

-   Explore sorting functionalities for lists to organize items by name
    or quantity.

**Challenge: Number Memory Game - Challenge the User to Remember a
Sequence of Randomly Generated Numbers stored in a Vector**

**1 Business Requirements:**

Develop a program that presents the user with a sequence of randomly
generated numbers displayed for a brief period. The user then has to try
and recall the sequence correctly.

**2 Tech Requirements:**

-   Use a vector to store the randomly generated number sequence.

-   Implement functionalities to display the sequence for a limited time
    and then take user input for their recall attempt.

**3 Learning Materials:**

-   C++ vector functionalities: \[Search online \"C++ vector
    documentation\"\]

-   C++ timers (optional, for a more advanced challenge): \[Search
    online \"C++ timers\"\]

**4 Testing:**

Test the program with sequences of varying lengths. Ensure random number
generation, sequence display, and user input for recall work correctly.

**5 Sample Implementation (Basic Version):**

\#**include** \<iostream\>

\#**include** \<vector\>

\#**include** \<ctime\>

using namespace std;

int main() {

srand(time(0)); // Seed random number generator

int sequenceLength;

cout \<\< \"Enter the length of the number sequence: \";

cin \>\> sequenceLength;

vector\<int\> numberSequence;

for (int i = 0; i \< sequenceLength; i++) {

numberSequence.push\_back(rand() % 10 + 1); // Generate random numbers
(1-10)

}

cout \<\< \"Memorize the following sequence: \";

for (int num : numberSequence) {

cout \<\< num \<\< \" \";

}

cout \<\< endl;

// Simulate a short delay (replace with timer function for a more
advanced challenge)

this\_thread::sleep\_for(chrono::seconds(2));

system(\"cls\"); // Clear console screen (platform-specific)

cout \<\< \"Recall the sequence (enter numbers separated by spaces): \";

vector\<int\> userRecall;

int userInput;

while (cin \>\> userInput) {

userRecall.push\_back(userInput);

}

bool correct = true;

if (userRecall.size() != sequenceLength) {

correct = false;

} else {

for (int i = 0; i \< sequenceLength; i++) {

if (userRecall\[i\] != numberSequence\[i\]) {

correct = false;

break;

}

}

}

if (correct) {

cout \<\< \"Congratulations! You recalled the sequence perfectly.\" \<\<
endl;

} else {

cout \<\< \"Sorry, your recall was not accurate. Try again next time.\"
\<\< endl;

}

return 0;

}

**6 Key Takeaways:**

-   Utilize vectors to store and manage sequences of data.

-   Simulate user interaction with delays or basic input handling.

**7 Further Reading:**

-   Explore C++ timer functionalities for a more advanced challenge
    where the sequence is displayed for a specific time duration.

-   Implement functionalities to track user score based on the number of
    correctly recalled sequences.
